The navigation summary lets you see what happens when users
start on a particular page where they go next and how they exit.
You'll find the navigation summary in the Behavior tab,
Site Content, All Pages report.
Click on Navigation Summary and select the page you want to focus
on using the drop down menu next to Current Selection.
Let's use the homepage.
This menu also lets you see a list of your site pages
and the number of page views for each page.
Let's focus on the four gray boxes on the top of the display.
The two gray boxes on the left hand side tells you how the page was reached,
the arrows report the percentage of site users
who reached the site directly with entrances.
You also see the percentage who come to the page via another page with previous pages.
In this case, nearly 58 percent of users viewing the homepage reached the page directly,
42 percent come from a previous page on the site.
The two great boxes on the right hand side tell you what
happens when users leave the page.
Exits reports the percent of users who leave the site entirely.
Next Pages report the percent who remain on the site and view another page.
So, in this case,
a larger percentage of users continue on to another page of
the site 65.52 percent which is a good thing.
For this site you want users to shop and
click into product categories and pages on the site.
It would be good to lower their percentage of exits month over month and
increase the percentage of users who go on to other pages.
Beneath the arrows are two columns,
one labeled Previous Page Path and the other labeled Next Page Path.
These columns provide the details on pages viewed prior to and after the target page.
Keep in mind that these relative numbers will change as the target page is changed.
So, the information shown in the left column beneath
previous page indicates that 12 percent of
users who visit the homepage from another internal page
arrive from the Shop By Brand YouTube page.
This isn't really striking,
so let's see if there's something insightful in the next page path column.
So, the right-hand column under the Next Page Path indicates that
the Google redesign apparel men's page
is the most frequently viewed page after the homepage,
20.69 percent of page views.
So, it sounds like shopper behavior with some browsing going on,
but why would shoppers go to the YouTube Brand Page and then to the homepage?
Why wouldn't they browse into the YouTube products?
Do they land there by accident?
Let's make this the target page.
Wow, now you see that this was an entrance page almost 80 percent of the time.
That means it's the first page on the customer journey,
and 54 percent of those users exit, this is something.
Let's make the homepage the current selection again and look at it to test a hunch.
You see the word redesign in the page URL,
so a change to the page must have been made.
If you click on the link in the UI,
it will take you to the actual page.
The page is not available,
this is a major find.
What is the source medium sending traffic to this page?
Is there a campaign driving traffic to this page or perhaps an old link?
This is something you can take action on right away.
You could use the landing pages report to see what
source medium is driving traffic to this page and address this issue,
but more importantly, the navigation summary
helped you find a high traffic page that is not available.
Use the navigation summary to analyze how users interact with your pages
to improve processes and flows on your site and to enhance the customer journey.